# Thesis Submission
This repository contains the submitted files for my bachelor's thesis titled "Formal Verification of Symmetry Properties in Distance-Rationalizable Voting Rules" from January 18, 2024.
My formalizations build on the Verified Modular Construction Framework by Diekhoff, Kirsten and Krämer (https://github.com/VeriVote/verifiedVotingRuleConstruction, https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Verified-Construction-of-Fair-Voting-Rules-Diekhoff-Kirsten/c23f23a3fa9b70d1b935d3824767c8e3f5079136) as well as adaptions by Steinriede (https://formal.kastel.kit.edu/offers/show.phtml?filename=Distance_Rationalization_for_Modular_Construction_of_Verified_Voting_Rules.md).

# Verified Construction of Fair Voting Rules
Voting rules aggregate multiple individual preferences in order to make a collective decision. Commonly, these mechanisms are expected to respect a multitude of different notions of fairness and reliability, which must be carefully balanced to avoid inconsistencies.
This repository contains a formalisation of a framework for the construction of such fair voting rules using composable modules. The framework is a formal and systematic approach for the flexible and verified construction of voting rules from individual composable modules to respect such social-choice properties by construction. Formal composition rules guarantee resulting social-choice properties from properties of the individual components which are of generic nature to be reused for various voting rules. We provide proofs for a selected set of structures and composition rules. The approach can be readily extended in order to support more voting rules, e.g., from the literature by extending the sets of modules and composition rules.

# Thesis Abstract: "Formal Verification of Symmetry Properties in Distance-Rationalizable Voting Rules"

Voting rules are functions that aggregate multiple single preferences into one result. As such, they model electoral systems. There are certain desired properties in voting rules that determine their suitability for different use cases. For example, any secret election should fulfill anonymity - independence of the voter identities. Generally, symmetry properties describe the behaviour of voting rules under changes to the voting situation. We take a closer look at symmetry properties which can be described with respect to group actions on the sets of elections and election results. We formalize this connection in Isabelle/HOL and use it to show inference rules for the modular construction of distance rationalizable voting rules. Moreover, some symmetry properties allow the transition to quotients of equivalence relations on the set of elections, offering a geometric perspective to the construction and study of voting rules. We formalize the basics needed to apply such transition in the modular construction and verification of distance rationalizable voting rules.

## Contact
For more information about the Verified Modular Construction Framework, please contact [Michael Kirsten](https://formal.kastel.kit.edu/~kirsten/?lang=en).
